---
connie-publish: true
tags:
  - Star-Sailors
  - Partnerships
  - Resources
  - Providers
connie-page-id: "28704830"
---
Hi Rob,

It was great to have our call on Wednesday and good to see you again. I'm really positive and excited about the potential to work together.

In short, the key point of the "Star Sailors" product is that it's a fully-integrated citizen science platform, rather than a website with a network of loosely-connected citizen science projects (like Zooniverse). This means that we can produce more of a game and position the platform more towards mainstream customers, as Zooniverse and the like are mainly targeted towards (and used by) academics and students.

The main inspiration or example I can think of is Pokemon Go. In 2016 it had almost 500 million downloads (6% of the planet), despite the total number of "real" Pokemon "fans" being much less. It conquered the mobile gaming market because it connected an interactive storyline into the user's real life, giving them a lot of different things to do, create, explore and attack. The user had full freedom with the way they wanted to play the game, but the Augmented Reality aspect brought the game environment into their lives. It was in actuality a number of small games rolled into one with a central storyline, progression mechanic and user/playerbase.

The problem with platforms like Zooniverse is that it's not really accessible or fun for the majority of people. It's quite text-heavy, not really mobile-compatible (we want people to be able to contribute to science/research as easily as they scroll through Instagram or check their bank balance) and has a high barrier of entry. Additionally, what the users do in one project has no consequence in others - you can't use planet candidates you classify to build mining structures on to collect resources, and you can't take antique papyrus you help translate to help you investigate ancient pottery pieces. It's static, unmoving, and only brings in one main type of user. It's a valuable platform, but I feel it can be significantly improved with a higher impact, a higher number of projects, and a larger user base, which would be invaluable to so many smaller/less funded research projects.

Star Sailors will function as a single multiplayer universe, where users make classifications (in the form of short text posts; like Twitter/Threads-sized publications) to earn different anomalies. Users are based on different planets, each with different natural resources available. If users want to [identify pictures of burrowing owls](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/sandiegozooglobal/wildwatch-burrowing-owl) or [count the number of spider crabs in photos](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/spidercrabwatch/spider-crab-watch) , they can start exploring the in-game universe to find locations/settings where those organisms could be found. Users thus help create the narrative and storyline of the universe while playing, as so much of the data structure is defined by our users. The mass of transiting exoplanet candidates will be estimated by our users, which then determines how the landscape of those planets is generated (and what alien "characters" form in these locations).

Over the years of building this project, I've floated a number of business models to make our game financially viable:
1. Users pay a monthly or flat fee to play the game. The core mechanics (see below) will remain 100% free and open-source, the narrative and connected storyline is what users will be paying for (researchers & students will be distributed free copies in perpetuity)
2. An in-game marketplace for game items, with the company behind Star Sailors taking a flat fee/commission of all transactions
3. Researchers have the option to provide a "bug bounty"-type offer for their projects, providing users with an added incentive for a particular citizen science module in-game. Everyone that takes part on a mission gets a share of this reward

The best way to describe the structure of the backend of Star Sailors (all the data and citizen science modules) is that users can interact with the different modules and apps in whatever way they want. If they want to start the game/narrative classifying seismic or mining data, they can create an alternative frontend (through Unity, NodeJS or any framework they want); and they're free to do with that as they wish. All data & classifications are linked together independent of the frontend, so there is a potential business model with selling our first/main frontend as a premium product.

However, I'm staunchly open-source and if I had unlimited funding, would not include monetisation at all. The point of this platform is for people like me, or high school students, or anyone to feel that they can make a meaningful contribution, and to then be able to do so. Plenty of people couldn't afford a monthly fee and to attract as many users as possible, we need to make it accessible to everyone. Freemium models are inherently predatory on our users so I'm not intending to include any pay-to-win models and at the moment am not thinking too much about monetisation. I'm just including this information for reference about the lifecycle of the project's development and because I'm working to ensure that we can at least cover our operating (server & licensing costs) expenses without permanently relying on grants or donations.

In terms of what we require at the moment, we've just begun engaging in talks with SETI (through DeSci World and DeSci Labs) for all of their radio data, and would love to explore different citizen science game modules we can implement through resources or partners of the Royal Society of Victoria. The more data we have, the more users we can appeal to (not everyone is interested in a space game or a mining game, but I firmly believe that there's an area of scientific exploration that would be appealing to everyone, if it's just presented and applied/implemented properly). 

I've been self-funding this game for 5 years, going back to when I was in Year 11 at high school. Currently we're paying €220/month for server & cloud computing expenses, with around 10 weekly active unique users (we usually bring in 100 new users with each major release, and we aim for a 10% retention rate). The biggest expenses in this area are rendering the scientific data in a graphical format, storing user data and player movements/actions, and the size of raw assets like images from satellites. We pay no money for marketing, and there are at any time 2-3 other people contributing to the development. We do not pay ourselves and as of now have never sold anything to our users.

We have been through 2 incubators, organised by Buildspace. These were Seasons 3 & 4 of Nights & Weekends, a 6-week program aiming at getting young builders from an idea to a functional product/project that users could interact with. I went through Season 3 in March/April 2023 and it was invaluable for me. Previously I'd built little snippets of interactions and data models, some little mini game scenes in Unity, but there had never been anything I could show to users. There was no frontend. After the incubator, we had a functional demo where administrators could provide new transit events for users to classify, and users could classify these events and earn points. We then explored gamification, user inventories and missions/tutorials in Season 4 and onboarded some more users. We've recently been accepted into Season 5 and through these programs we've been given a small amount of funding (< $1000 usd total) that serves as a bit of trust and belief in our project.

We would like to bring on a part-time game designer to ensure that we can create a game that is not just functional, but is fun for as many users as possible. Often we get caught up in creating the functionality or the core science behind the scenes and as such it's often hard to know if we're on the right track from a user experience perspective. We would also like to have some resources to cover some of our server costs as with more users (and data) they are likely to grow quite large (once we receive around ~890 active monthly users the rate of cost increase becomes negligible, but the key challenge we have is producing enough content (and different modules) so there's enough for our users to do, while also not having the means/marketing to onboard thousands of users at a time to cover the load). The issue we have is that we're not able to produce enough content/code fast enough due to our time commitments with work and our research at our respective educational institutions - we are happy for this to continue to be a passion/hobby project, but we can't have the impact we want with the current restrictions we have on our teams' time and abilities.

We're currently investigating licensing Star Sailors to for-profit companies for users to classify their data (and get some form of compensation for doing so), and we've received a small grant of €3000 from Copernic Space (my employer) to investigate the feasibility of a dedicated solution for them. 

I'm not really sure how the Royal Society works or expects the projects it supports/partners with to operate, if operating in a for-profit manner is acceptable or not. My goal is simply to continue building the product and adding as much content to it as possible, allowing for meaningful contributions to be made. I have no desire to make money off this platform and as such if there's any restrictions or requirements that would need to be placed on the platform or company behind it (Signal Kinetics PTY LTD), I don't foresee there being an issue.

Thanks again for your time.

Liam Arbuckle