---
tags:
  - Structure
  - Anomaly
  - Generating
---

I've got the globe working as of https://github.com/Signal-K/client/commit/46185a32686d9a99701357ff769ede306115043d commit

Here's my technical plan:
1. Create a separate page for the globe, sort of like the explore route - in prod, we'll won't have a base/index route and it will all be id-locked, however I'm going to work on getting the layout correct.
2. I will experiment with an overlay model and also a page model, and we can see how it will all look. If v2 was only going to be about simple interactions with anomalies, we could probably get away with a single page application like Voidpet, however I feel that there will be enough mega pages (i.e. `/explore` route, full mini-games, etc) that this won't be feasible. Maybe they could be accessed in the same way as the separate pages (e.g. "attack"/missions) are in VP?
3. Arcs will be based on structures and show the flow (MC computer grid/item network)


Update -> 17/4/2024
1. Was able to get the globe rendering correctly, having issues with the shadowing but overall the colouring & other configuration is easy enough to organise
2. I'm having issues with adding extra fields to each "country" or landmass, e.g. the image. I'm thinking that each landmass can represent a sector, which could have multiple items on it (structures). The challenge is to get those items to be visible from the sphere/globe, as that would kind of be desirable. At minimum, we need to be able to have the landmasses be "clickable" so we can transport the user to the sector
3. We may need to find a different globe template as right now we only have a surface-level view of the globe, what would be really useful is if when we click on a landmass it could animate itself into a flat topographical map or something. Potentially creating an overlay that shows the structures would be sufficient.
4. Since I'm thinking the structures could be accessed without having to go onto the planet, and the planet just shows where the structures are, maybe this can be something we worry about later. We just need to calculate the landmass creation/generation process (and link it in with the other procedural generation content from the other repositories), link it with the database structure (eventually there will be a microservice that will spit out the configuration values) so that each planet is generated uniquely.
5. I'm going to focus on the onboarding & styling for the next few hours, but will revist this from the other end later by also creating separate pages/overlays for each structure and clearly labelling them here for ease of access.

Update ->
* It appears that this globe isn't going to work. A good start, but there's too many issues (especially with optimisation). I don't really understand it completely
* I think I'm going to take a look at something like this https://github.com/dgreenheck/threejs-procedural-planets/tree/main/scripts, look at locking down configurations for instances of planets, and then a coordinate system which will map out how the structures are stored.